https://www.udemy.com/course/learn-jmeter-m/learn/lecture/14413266#overview

Performance Testing
-------------------
- is necessary before marketing any software product


Types of Performance Testing
-----------------------------
Load Testing
- the applications ability to perform under anticipated user loads.
- objective is to identify performance bottlenecks before the software applications goes like 

Stress Testing
- involves testing an application under extreme workloads to see how it handles traffic or data processing.
- objective is to identify the breaking point of an application

Endurance testing
- done to make sure the software can handle the expected load over a long period of time

Spike testing
- the software reaction to a sudden large spikes in the load generated by the users.

Volume testing
- a larger number of data is populated in the database and overall software systems behavior is monitored.
- objective is to take the software application performance and letting database volumes.

Common performance problems
--------------------------------
- Long load time 
- Poor response time
- Poor scalability
- Bottlenecking
-- Some common performance bottlenecks are
---- CPU utilization
---- Memory utilization
---- Network utilization
---- Operating System limitations
---- Disk usage

Performance Testing Process
----------------------------
1. Identify Test Environment
2. Plan and Design Tests
3. Identify Performance Acceptance Criteria
4. Configure Test Environment
5. Implement Test Design
6. Execute tests
7. Analyze and Report

Example Test Cases
------------------
1. Response time <= 4 secs for 1000 users simultaneously
2. Response time of the app under load is within an acceptable range when the network connectivity is low.
3. Check the maximum number of users that the application can handle before it crashes.
4. Check the database execution time when 500 records are read/written simultaneously.
5. Check the CPU and memory usage of the app and the database server under peak load conditions
6. Response time of the app under low, normal, moderate and heavy load conditions.

JMeter
------
- simulates multiple users sending request to target server, and returns the performance result of the target

First JMeter test
------

1. Start JMeter
2. Create a TestPlan
3. Create a Thread Group (Users)
4. Add a Sampler (Http)
5. Add Listeners
6. Run Test Plan
7. Save Test Plan

Assertions
---------
1. Response Assertion - used in test scripts to validate a pattern in the response body, header, code, message, etc. There are different pattern matching rules to validate the response
2. Size Assertion - used to validate the size of the response with a specified value in bytes.
3. Duration Assertion - used to validate that the sampler request gets processed within a specified amount of time
4. HTML Assertion - used to check HTML syntax of the response
5. XML Assertion - used to validate that the response follows a valid XML syntax.
6. XML Schema Assertion - used to validate the response against a specified XML schema
7. XPath Assertion - used to validate the response using XPath expressions
8. JSON Assertion - used to validate response using JSON expression

Listeners
---------
- provide access to the information JMeter gatehrs about the test cases while JMeter runs.
- The results or information gathered by the listeners can be shown in the form f :
  - tree
  - tables
  - graphs
  - log file

Types of Listeners
-----------------
1. View Results in Table
2. View Results Tree
3. Graph Results
4. Aggregate Report
5. Aggregate Graph
6. Summary Report
7. Simple Data Writer

Timers
------
- JMeter sends requests without applying any delay between each sampler/request.
- If you perform load/stress testing on your server without any delay, it will be overloaded. Then, it won't be able to give you realistic results and fail to simulate real world user traffic experience.
- are the solution to all these problems.
- element can be added in a test plan to apply wait between each sampler/request.

Types of timer
-------------
1. Constant timer
2. Uniform Random Timer
3. Gaussian Random Timer
4. BeanShell Timer
5. BSF Timer
6. JSR223 Timer

Logical Controllers
-------------------
- let you handle the order of processing Samplers/Requests in a Thread.
- will decide "When & How" to send a request to a web server.
- provides several Logic Controller, which are as follows:
  - Critical Section Controller
  - ForEach Controller
  - If Controller
  - Include Controller
  - Interleave Controller
  - Loop Controller
  - Module Controller
  - Once Only Controller
  - Random Controller
  - Random Order Controller
  - Recording Controller
  - Runtime Controller
  - Simple Controller
  - Switch Controller
  - Throughput Controller
  - Transaction Controller
  - While Controller

Recording in JMeter
------------------
1. Add NonTestElement - http Recording
2. Set Proxy on Browser
3. Start Recording in different Recording Controller
4. Start Scenario Recording
5. Stop Recording and save

Simple Controller
-----------------
- container of a single request or multiple requests.
  
Module Controller
------------------
- can call other controller 

Test Fragment
-------------
- not a controller, but an alternative to Simple controller

Include Controller
-------------------
- executes the script which is already saved

Random Controller
-----------------


